update output types for v4 (#218)
hubverse-org/hubDocs: docs/source/quickstart-hub-admin/tasks-config.md

- To indicate **no possible additional information**, **`optional` can be set to `null`**.  
- If **`required` is set to `null`** but `optional` contains values, (see for example [`"location"`](#setting-up-location)): **no particular value is required, but at least one of the `optional` values is expected**.  
- There may be cases where we have **multiple `model_tasks` and a given task ID is relevant to one or more model tasks but not others.** For example, in the code snippet below; on lines 8--14, the `horizon` task id is relevant to the first model task, whose `target` is `inc covid hosp`, and any one of the optional values specified is expected in the `horizon` column in a model output file. 

>   However, shown on lines 30--36, **`horizon` is irrelevant to the second model task**, whose `target` is `peak size`. For this model task, **both `required` and `optional` are set to `null`** in the `horizon` task ID configuration, and a missing value (`NA`) is expected in the `horizon` column in model output files.

Reviewer: Should we mention here that this might be `NA` or `None` in model out files?

Author: wellllllllllll in model _CSV files_ specifically, it's going to be `NA` (or `null` in the case of parquet). `None` is only ever represented in Python. 

I think it's better to just remove it than poke that particular bear.

```suggestion
  However, shown on lines 30--36, **`horizon` is irrelevant to the second model task**, whose `target` is `peak size`. For this model task, **both `required` and `optional` are set to `null`** in the `horizon` task ID configuration, and a missing value is expected in the `horizon` column in model output files.
```

```{code-block} json
:force: true
:lineno-start: 1

> :emphasize-lines: 8-14,30-36

Reviewer: 🥰 Very nice!

            "origin_date": {
                "required": null,
                "optional": ["2022-11-28"]
            },
            "target": {
                "required": ["inc covid hosp"],
                "optional": null
            },
            "horizon": {
                "required": null,
                "optional": [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12]
            },
            "location": {
                "required": ["US"],
                "optional": null
            }
        },
        "output_type": {...},
        "target_metadata": [...]
    },
    {
        "task_ids": {
            "origin_date": {
                "required": null,
                "optional": ["2022-11-28"]
            },
            "target": {
                "required": ["peak size hosp"],
                "optional": null
            },
            "horizon": {
                "required": null,
                "optional": null
            },
            "location": {
                "required": ["US"],
                "optional": null
            }
        },
        "output_type": {...},
        "target_metadata": [...]
    }
]
```

## Step 6: Define `"output_type"`:  

> - The [`output_type`](#model-output-format) is used to establish the valid model output types for a given modeling task. This example includes `mean` and `quantile`, but `median`, `cdf`, `pmf`, and `sample` are other supported output types. Output types have two additional properties, an `output_type_id` and  a `value` property, which establish the valid values that can be entered for this output type.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The [`output_type`](#model-output-format) specifies the types of outputs accepted for a given model task. This example includes `mean` and `quantile`, but `median`, `cdf`, `pmf`, and `sample` are other supported output types. 

Each output type contains the following properties:

- **`output_type_id`** (or `output_type_id_params` in the case of `sample`):   specifies/configures valid output type IDs values.
- **`value`**: specifies the format and rules for the output's values, such as the data type and any limits (e.g., minimum or maximum values). 
- **`is_required`**: A true/false property to indicate whether an output type is required.
```

Author: 🎯

### 6.1. Setting the `"mean"`:  

> - Here, the `"mean"`{.codeitem} of the predictive distribution is set as a valid value for a submission file.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Here, the `"mean"`{.codeitem} of the predictive distribution is set as a valid `output_type` value for a submission file.  
```

- `"output_type_id"`{.codeitem} must be `null` for all point estimates (mean,
  median, etc). No output type IDs for these estimates are applicable, so in a
  model submission file, they are represented as missing data[^missy].
- `"value"`{.codeitem} sets the characteristics of this valid `output_type` (i.e., the mean). In this instance, the value must be an `integer` greater than or equal to `0`.  
- `"is_required"`{.codeitem} defines if a mean prediction is required (`true`) or if it is optional (`false`). The code below shows that the mean output type is optional. 

> [^missy]: In a CSV file, this is represented as `NA` (without quotes) and it is how missingness is represented in R. This was chosen explicitly over a blank cell because the difference between a blank cell and a single-space cell is not always visible. 

Reviewer: Is this right? What does `None` end up as in a csv when written out in python?

Author: Good catch! The answer to your specific question is: no---the default for python writers is a blank cell (`na_rep = ""`) (e.g. [DataFrame.to_csv()](https://pandas.pydata.org/docs/reference/api/pandas.DataFrame.to_csv.html)).

BUUUUTT I was wrong because I had thought we recommended python people bend to our evil R ways and set `na_rep = "NA"`, but we realized that was too confusing and just went with the default blank cell. 

So, mea culpa 😳 

```suggestion
[^missy]: In a CSV file, this is represented as either a blank cell (default for Python) or `NA` (default for R). 
```

```{code-block} json
:force: true
:lineno-start: 1
"mean": {
    "output_type_id": {
        "required": null
    },
    "value": {
        "type": "integer",
        "minimum": 0
    },
    "is_required": false
}
```

### 6.2. Setting up `"quantile"`:  

> - Here, `quantile`{.codeitem} specifies what quantiles of the predictive distribution are valid values for a submission file.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Here, the `quantile`{.codeitem} object configures what values are accepted in the `output_type_id` and `value` columns when the value in the `output_type` column in a submission file is `"quantile"`.  
```

> - In this case, `"output_type_id"`{.codeitem} (line 2) establishes the accepted probability levels at which quantiles of the predictive distribution will be recorded. In this case, quantiles are required at discrete levels that range from `0.01` to `0.99`. **Quantile `output_type_id` values must NOT contain trailing zeros** as this will cause submission validation checks to fail[^quant-fail].  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `"output_type_id"`{.codeitem} (line 2) establishes the accepted probability levels at which quantiles of the predictive distribution will be recorded. In this case, quantiles are required at discrete levels that range from `0.01` to `0.99`. **Quantile `output_type_id` values must NOT contain trailing zeros** as this will cause submission validation checks to fail[^quant-fail].  
```

> - As before, `"value"`{.codeitem} (line 29) sets the characteristics of valid `quantile` values. In this instance, the values must be integers greater than or equal to `0`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As before, `"value"`{.codeitem} (line 29) sets the characteristics of valid `quantile` `value` values. In this instance, the values must be integers greater than or equal to `0`.  
```

> - `"is_required"`{.codeitem} (line 33) defines if a quantile prediction is required (`true`) or if it is optional (`false`). The code below shows that the quantile output type is required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `"is_required"`{.codeitem} (line 33) defines whether a quantile prediction is required (`true`) or if it is optional (`false`). The code below shows that the quantile output type is required.
```

> [^quant-fail]: During validation, the quantil output type IDs are compared as character strings instead of as numeric (floating point) values. There is a good reason for this: [floating point numbers have precision problems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Floating-point_arithmetic#Accuracy_problems).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^quant-fail]: During validation, the quantile output type IDs are compared as character strings instead of as numeric (floating point) values. There is a good reason for this: [floating point numbers have precision problems](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Floating-point_arithmetic#Accuracy_problems).
```

```{code-block} json
:force: true
:lineno-start: 1
"quantile": {
    "output_type_id": {
        "required": [
            0.01,
            0.025,
            0.05,
            0.1,
            0.15,
            0.2,
            0.25,
            0.3,
            0.35,
            0.4,
            0.45,
            0.5,
            0.55,
            0.6,
            0.65,
            0.7,
            0.75,
            0.8,
            0.85,
            0.9,
            0.95,
            0.975,
            0.99,
        ]
    },
    "value": {
        "type": "integer",
        "minimum": 0
    },
    "is_required": true
}
```

## Step 7: Defining `"target_metadata"`:  
- `"target_metadata"`{.codeitem} defines the characteristics of each unique `target`.  
- To begin with, `"target_id"`{.codeitem} is a short description that uniquely identifies the target.  
- Similarly, `"target_name"`{.codeitem} provides a longer, human readable description of the target.  

> - `"target_units"`{.codeitem} indicates the unit of observation used for this target.  In this instance, the unit is count.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `"target_units"`{.codeitem} indicates the unit of observation used for this target.  In this instance, the unit is `"count"`.  
```

> - `"target_keys"`{.codeitem} must match a target set in `task_ids`, to appropriately identify it.  In this instance, the target is `"inc covid hosp"`.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `"target_keys"`{.codeitem} expect an object containing key/value pairs that appropriately identify the target. The keys must match the name of a task ID and the values must match a valid task ID value of the task ID.  In this instance, the target is identified by a single task ID (`"target"`), the key is the task ID name `"target"` and the value is `"inc covid hosp"`.  
```

            "origin_date": {
                "required": null,
                "optional": ["2022-11-28"]
            },
            "target": {
                "required": ["inc covid hosp"],
                "optional": null
            },
            "horizon": {
                "required": null,
                "optional": [0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12]
            },
            "location": {
                "required": ["US"],
                "optional": null
            }
        },
        "output_type": {...},
        "target_metadata": [...]
    },
    {
        "task_ids": {
            "origin_date": {
                "required": null,
                "optional": ["2022-11-28"]
            },
            "target": {
                "required": ["peak size hosp"],
                "optional": null
            },
            "horizon": {
                "required": null,
                "optional": null
            },
            "location": {
                "required": ["US"],
                "optional": null
            }
        },
        "output_type": {...},
        "target_metadata": [...]
    }
]
```

## Step 6: Define `"output_type"`:  

> - The [`output_type`](#model-output-format) specifies the types of outputs accepted for a given model task. This example includes `mean` and `quantile`, but `median`, `cdf`, `pmf`, and `sample` are other supported output types. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`output_type`](#model-output-format) specifies the types of outputs accepted for a given model task. This example includes `mean` and `quantile`, but `median`, `cdf`, `pmf`, and `sample` are other supported output types. 
```

Sorry my bad! Should have caught this the first time!

Author: No worries! Removing that minus is definitely a plus!
